♪Opening Song♪
[AKI]
On the day of my marriage,
my wedding party and I
passed through the forest
north of here.
I think that must be
where I picked it up.
[AKI]
I didn't see it at first.
a small green stain
on my headdress.
My mind was on other things.
I didn't notice it till
well after the ceremony.
I didn't like to look at it,
there was something
repulsive about it.
The following year, our first
child, Watahiko, was born.
Please, you must help him.
Since these spots have appeared,
he's grown weaker and weaker.
And all I can think of
is that green stain.
[GINKO] Forgive me,
but I have to ask you.
Your child, when he was born,
was he the shape
of a normal baby?
[gasps]
[AKI]
No...
He wasn't human.
He wasn't even a beast.
[GINKO] I never thought I'd
be invited back to that house.
but barely three
months later, I returned.
--[footsteps]
--[YASUKE] Ginko!
Thank goodness you've come!
[GINKO]
I read your letter.
Is there still time?
[YASUKE]
Yes. Hurry, to the house.
Please forgive me.
I was going to do it.
I really was, but I just ...
It's fine, I understand.
I'm glad that you told me.
It's strange.
I really didn't think it would
come to this so quickly.
[YASUKE]
Yeah...
He's been growing at
such an incredible rate
it's frightening.
[GINKO] Your child,
when he was born.
was he the shape
of a normal baby?
Aki, are you all right?
I'll tell it from here.
[YASUKE]
Like she said.
No, he wasn't human.
He wasn't even a beast.
[MIDWIFE screams, gasps]
[AKI gasps]
[YASUKE] He didn't
make a cry or a sound.
He was nothing but a
shapeless green mass.
[AKI gasps]
Aki!
It's getting away!
[YASUKE grunts]
[YASUKE]
Then it was gone.
It slipped underneath the
house and disappeared,
without a trace.
My wife had wanted
a child so badly,
but that seemed
impossible now.
So she spent all her
time shut up in the house
[YASUKE]
Then, a year later.
[scratching]
Do you hear that noise?
What is it?
[scratching continues]
[gasps]
Do you think that...
someone abandoned him?
[AKI]
No, look at him.
See, this is our baby.
He's come back to us!
[YASUKE]
He does look a lot like Aki.
[AKI]
Don't you see?
He's become human.
[YASUKE]
I didn't know what to think.
I was scared,
but I chose to
believe it was so.
That child...
I mean, Watahiko's
growth was amazing.
He liked to eat
fresh fish and fruit.
And in a little over six months,
he was the size of a
three-year-old boy.
But, his mind remained
that of an infant.
H-He didn't show any
feelings or learn to speak.
Even so, as he grew to
resemble us more and more,
I started to become
attached too.
Until one night...
[CAT meows, hisses]
[YASUKE]
Stupid cat.
What a racket.
[Meowing, hissing continues]
[YASUKE] Hey. Go on,
get out of here, shoo.
[gasps]
[YASUKE] There was another
child under the house,
just as before.
Why, it's amazing, he looks
exactly like Watahiko!
I suppose he must
be ours too somehow.
I wonder. Do you think
there'll be more?
You shouldn't say
things like that.
[YASUKE]
But there were more.
Watahiko continued
to multiply.
another sprouting up
every six months.
I dug up the ground under
the house again and again,
but I couldn't find anything
out of the ordinary.
And now, since the
beginning of the year,
our eldest son has
been growing sicker,
starting with
those green spots.
He's so weak, he sleeps
for half the day.
And the spots seem
to be spreading.
His doctors told me
there's no hope for him.
And then, someone told
us about people like you.
[GINKO]
I'm sorry.
Even a mushi master is
helpless in a case like this.
[BOTH gasp]
[GINKO] He's reached the
end of his lifespan.
There's a mushi known
as a "watahaki."
it looks something like
green cotton in appearance
and floats through the air.
It enters the body
of a pregnant woman
and becomes a parasite on
the ovum, destroying it.
The mother then
gives birth to it
in the form of a
gelatinous ooze,
which quickly escapes through
the floors or into the ceiling.
Six months later, it sends a
fungus in the shape of a baby,
called a hitotake,
back to the parents.
Your son's rate of growth
matches the records
of a hitotake exactly.
But, To be sure...
I'm going to need to take a
look underneath your house.
Thanks, but I
won't need a light.
[GINKO] There it is.
And it's enormous.
Just like I thought. A watahaki.
[YASUKE]
Impossible.
I looked, there's nothing there!
Take a good look at this
dirt in the sunlight.
[gasps]
[GINKO]
The hitotake are connected
to the main mass of the
watahaki by slender filaments.
[GINKO] They're merely
extensions of the mushi.
They gather nutrients
for the main body,
like the roots of a plant.
I see...
Hideous.
[GINKO] That child is at
the end of his existence.
Soon he'll disintegrate.
When he does, he'll cough
up a cloud of spores.
Before that happens,
we have to kill him.
Wha--
Are you out of your mind?!
Do you think we called you here
so you could murder my baby?
Save him!
Save him from this monster,
this mushi, or whatever
you call it!
There's no child left
for me to save.
Those children are
actually mushi
wearing the skin of your
child as a disguise.
What's more,
it was they who killed your
unborn child in the womb,
in order to take its place.
[GINKO]
Please, try to understand.
I'm sorry.
It's all right... to hate me.
[sighs] I'm surprised you
persuaded your wife.
Me, too. And she hasn't
spoken to me since then.
We cared for him as our
own son for three years.
who can blame her?
Listen.
She... She wants you to leave
the other children with us.
Please!
I want you to as well!
A-At least for now!
They're harmless until they
start to have symptoms!
I beg you, leave them alone!
I'll take care of them.
You don't have to worry.
When the time comes,
I'll kill the next two before
they leave any spores.
Just leave them with us!
But the lifespan of a watahaki
can be anywhere from
10 to 30 years long.
And during that time,
the cycle will repeat itself.
Do you see what I'm saying?
You don't know how many
more of these "children"
you may have to kill.
Can you do this it?
I can.
I swear to you.
Tell me something.
You said before you
were afraid of them.
So why do you say now
you want to raise them?
Because...
...I don't want my wife to
suffer any more than she has.
Aki... adores those
four children.
She calls them all Watahiko.
If we lose all of them at once,
I don't know what
would happen to her.
Many years ago,
she married into the family
of a wealthy shopkeeper
from a town
beyond the mountains.
She gave birth to the expected
heir and all was well.
But before the boy
was even a year old,
he died of some minor illness.
So her first husband
divorced her.
It isn't... it isn't fair.
It's just... cruel.
[exhales]
In the past, as soon
as they were identified,
All watahaki children
were killed.
And as a result,
the main body died off.
There's no record of more
than two children surviving.
At least, not until now.
Who knows?
These children may never
develop the expected symptoms.
Then, we can--
[GINKO]
Maybe.
It's hard to say.
[gasps]
But it'd be hasty
to kill the others.
Besides, I just
don't want to do it.
I have reasons I can't
stay here any longer,
but I'll be back in three
months to check in on you.
If anything happens,
send me a letter.
[gasps]
[YASUKE]
Thank you.
[GINKO] The letter came shortly
before three months had passed.
[WATAHIKO] There he is.
He came It's him.
We're going to be killed.
No, it'll be all right.
Don't worry.
[WATAHIKO coos]
[AKI]
Hm? Watahiko?
That man is coming.
[footsteps]
[YASUKE]
Yes.
My wife has agreed.
We're raising
something unnatural.
The time has come...
...to honor our
agreement with you.
--[door clatters]
--[YASUKE] Aki.
Ginko is here.
[AKI]
Welcome. Thank you for coming.
It's all right.
Ginko, this way.
[GINKO]
Right.
[GINKO grunts]
[YASUKE]
Ginko...? Ginko!
[GINKO grunts]
[YASUKE]
You're awake!
You'd better lie back down.
[groans]
[GINKO]
What a life...
[YASUKE] There's no way I can
tell you how sorry I am.
I'll, uh... I'll keep her
locked in our bedroom
until you're finished here.
Uh-huh... you do that.
I thought she understood.
I was a fool.
So I gather...
...the situation here has
changed since last time?
Yes, I... I... was going to
tell you before, but then...
...the children. They're not...
...they're not just developing
physically anymore.
For instance,
one time I saw my fourth
son peeling chestnuts
just as I had taught
my second son.
I had only recently taught
the older boy this.
Did the younger
learn by copying?
They seem to be gradually
getting smarter.
Ah... Ah...
Oh, dear. Did you get
caught out in the rain?
I'll get you a change
of clothes, all right?
[WATAHIKO]
Daddy?
[YASUKE]
Huh?
Daddy. I'm hungry.
Aki! He talked. He talked!
Well, all right then,
little man!
Let's get you something to eat!
[YASUKE]
But then our second son
developed the same
symptoms as the first.
[AKI]
It's too soon.
We just lost his
older brother.
We can't lose him too.
We have to.
We promised.
It's our duty to kill him.
[WATAHIKO]
Daddy? I don't want to die.
[gasps]
Please don't kill me.
I wanna live.
Save me, Daddy.
[gasps]
[YASUKE] He's become too
much like a real person.
I can't do it.
Not even to take revenge...
...for the death
of our real baby.
[GINKO]
How is this possible?
It's suddenly learned
how to think?
No...
It must have always
been able to.
Perhaps it sensed danger
when the oldest died,
and that triggered
this new behavior.
And anything one learns,
is transmitted to all of them.
Each of them is connected to
the main body of the mushi...
They all receive information
for five people at once.
That's how they
learn so quickly.
But, are they human in any way?
No...
They're a fungus...
...in human form.
That thinks.
[WATAHIKO] We've failed.
We're going to be killed.
We have to protect the spores.
I'm sure there was a way.
We've forgotten...
We've forgotten!
When we learned human things,
we lost our memory of
how to protect the spores.
What was it?
What was it?!
[YASUKE]
How do you feel?
[GINKO grunts]
[GINKO] Well, I can
sit up, at least.
That's good.
I'm glad.
Your second son,
he's in the back?
[YASUKE]
Yes.
Very well then.
I'm leaving.
But before that,
I'm going to kill the base.
And I'm sorry,
but I'm going to have to take
the remaining children with me.
I can't leave them
with you any longer.
Please don't kill me.
Can't you save me?
I don't wanna die.
Give it up.
Why must you kill us?
Because you kill people's
children to survive.
But that isn't our fault.
It's not our fault either.
However, we're stronger
than you are.
That's why you're going to die
without leaving any spores.
I see.
Well then...
...It seems we
have no choice.
Let's do it.
Let's do it...
[GINKO gasps]
[gasps]
[GINKO] Dammit. They're going
to burn the whole house down!
[grunting]
Of course!
Now I see what they're doing!
We got the idea from the scrolls
you brought along with you.
Normally we'd be able to do
this without having to think.
We must protect the spores.
This way, we win.
Ginko!
[GINKO]
Don't come this way! Get out!
[AKI]
Watahiko!
We have to get the children out!
The children are the
ones who set the fire!
[AKI]
Get out of my way!
They'll do anything to
protect their spores!
That's the kind of
creatures they are.
They're not creatures,
they're my children!
--[GINKO grunts]
--[YASUKE] Aki!
[GINKO groans]
[AKI]
Watahiko!
[gasps]
[BOTH gasping]
[AKI]
Watahiko...
My baby...
[GINKO] The base has
completely disappeared.
[gasp]
[GINKO] When the watahaki
is threatened,
it releases the
hitotake from the base.
That way, the spores
can escape.
The hitotake then
change their form
and go into a long hibernation.
This... this is?
I have no idea when
they'll awaken.
It could be long after
you pass away.
In any event,
until that time comes,
I'll leave it with
the two of you.
[AKI sobs]
I understand.
We'll care for it always.
[sobing continues]
[WATAHIKO] What was that
thing you gave them?
[GINKO]
A chunk of mineral.
It was part of my supplies.
Rather pricey, too.
[WATAHIKO]
Why did you do that?
You sure are an odd creature.
Look who's talking.
[GINKO]
Why aren't you hibernating?
All the records say that's what
you should be doing now.
Because... I'm not sleepy.
What about you?
Why don't you kill me now, while
you have me here helpless?
Because I've got till
the end of my life.
[WATAHIKO]
Like I said, an odd creature.
[GINKO] That's enough out
of you. Go to sleep already.
[NARRATOR]
Next: "Shrine in the Sea."